- [Narrator] When building batch jobs it's common to execute
the same sequence of steps or flow within multiple jobs.
Spring Batch provides a Flow Builder that allows us
to externalize a sequence of steps into a flow
that can be reused across different jobs.
Let's take a look at how we can apply the concept
of an external flow to our deliver package job
and our prepare flowers job.
Currently within the deliver package job, we have a sequence
of steps that deals with taking a particular item
and getting it to a customer.
I've highlighted those and annotated them
with the delivery flow.
What we're going to do is externalize this section
of our deliver package job and then within our prepare
flowers job, we're going to leverage and execute
that delivery flow as part of our batch processing.
We'll also be able to keep that flow within our deliver
package job achieving reusability across both jobs.
Let's take a look at how to pull the steps related
to our delivery into an external flow so that both
of our jobs can reuse them.
The first thing that we'll need to do is within
our linked-in batch application class.
We'll need to create a new bean and this bean
is going to be of type flow.
So, go ahead and add the bean annotation,
and then we're going to declare a method that returns a flow
and we're going to name it delivery flow.
Now, within this method, we're going to use a Flow Builder,
and that Flow Builder has a generic type argument
of simple flow.
And then similar to our other constructs,
we're going to provide the name of the flow.
And in this case, it's going to be the delivery flow.
Now, the delivery flow is going to execute those steps
that will deliver an item to a customer.
So, we're going to take a look at our deliver package job
because it contains those sequence of steps
that we would like to execute.
So, pretty much everything after the package items step
is going to be applicable to delivering the item
whether it be flowers or shoes to the customer.
So let's go ahead we'll copy that,
and then we're going to navigate back to our delivery flow,
and within the delivery flow, we're going to go ahead
and add those steps because we'd like to externalize them.
And then the first thing we'll do, we need to change
next over to start, because the drive to address step
will be the first step in our flow.
And then you'll remember that we're using a builder,
so, we need to call the build method in order to create
our flow object.
And then we'll just be sure to import the flow type.
And at this point, we have our external flow.
Now, we know that both jobs are going to use this flow.
So, let's first add this flow into our prepare flowers job.
And here you can see we're going to select the flowers,
we're going to remove the thorns,
and then we're going to arrange them.
So, at this point, we would now like to deliver the flowers
to the customer.
And we can do that by leveraging the configurator
in our external flow.
So, we're going to go from the arrange flowers step,
and once it completes, then we're going to proceed
to execute our flow so we can pull in
our delivery flow here.
All right, so that's all it takes in order to pull in
that external flow into another job.
Now, we still have our deliver job that will need
to be modified.
So, let's navigate to that.
And here we're going to make some adjustments.
So, we know that we copied pretty much all of these steps,
so let's go ahead and pull them out of our job
because we don't want to execute them twice.
And then, we're simply going to add the on transition
and for any exit status, we are going to proceed
to the delivery flow.
So, at this point, our flow is externalized
and it's included within both of our jobs.
So, we can go ahead and run both of these jobs.
To run these jobs, we're going to navigate over
to our terminal.
And the first job I'll run is the delivery job.
We'll see the job build, and then kick off and we can take
a look to make sure that our package does get delivered.
Okay, so we can see that we package the item,
then we proceeded to the drive to address step
the customer was not present
so we left the package at the door.
Excellent.
Okay, let's go ahead and we'll clear the console,
and then I'm going to run the flowers job
so we're going to prepare some flowers
and then those flowers will be delivered
using the job configuration within our external flow.
So here you can see that we arranged the flowers
for the order, and then we proceeded into the delivery flow.
We were able to drive to the address once again,
they weren't home, and then we left the flowers at the door.
Using flows introduces a lot of reusability in Spring Batch
by allowing us to specify common sequences of steps
in a single definition.
If you find yourself copying and pasting from one job
to another, it would be beneficial to introduce a flow
into your jobs.